# Webpage of the project

[https://priscian-glosses.acdh-dev.oeaw.ac.at/index.html](https://priscian-glosses.acdh-dev.oeaw.ac.at/index.html)

# Set Up of Work Environment

* Install [TEI-Facsimile-Plugin](https://github.com/oxygenxml/TEI-Facsimile-Plugin)
  * In Oxygen: Help -> Install new add-ons
  * Paste `https://github.com/oxygenxml/TEI-Facsimile-Plugin/raw/master/addon/image-markup-plugin.xml` in "show add-ons from" field
  * Confirm all further prompts
  * Restart Oxygen and test installation by clicking on `Image Markup Sample`
 
* Install [Git add-on](https://github.com/oxygenxml/oxygen-git-plugin) for Oxygen

# Editing

* Transcribe the text (in `tei:text/tei:body`) using all the power of the TEI
* Page structure `tei:pb` with `@xml:id`, `n`, and `@facs` pointing to the matching `tei:surface/@xml:id`
* Facsimile structure `tei:facsimile` with a `tei:surface` element with similar attributes as `tei:pb`
* Create `tei:zone` elements in the `tei:facsimile` section for margins, copy the `@xml:id` generated by the plug-in and use this in the `@facs` attribute of the according transcription of the margin. 
* See the documentation at [https://priscian-glosses.acdh-dev.oeaw.ac.at/technical-documentation.html](https://priscian-glosses.acdh-dev.oeaw.ac.at/technical-documentation.html)

# Structure of the Repository (Where to Find Things)

* The edition is the file ```50-weiss.xml``` in the directory ```matc/data/editions```.
* ```data/pictures``` - The pictures used in the edition.
* The created HTML files reside in the outermost level of the repository:
   * ```index.html``` - the start file of the project
   * ```about.html``` - Description of the project
   * ```contact.html``` - Contact of the project participants
   * ```technical-documentation.html``` - Explanation of and guide for the XML/TEI-Encoding
   * ```old-high-german-glosses.html``` - Page with the old high-german glosses as found in the codex
   * ```output-and-events.html``` - Publications and events during the project timespan
   * ```introduction.html``` - Introduction into the project and usage of the edition
   * ```edition.html``` - A standard view of the edited text (generated)
   * ```edition-interactive.html``` - An interactive view of the edited text (including facsimiles) (generated)
   * ```edition-simplified.html``` - A simplified view of the data (generated).
   * ```statistics.html``` - A file with statistics about the material found in the edition (generated).
   * ```search.html``` - A page to search in the edition.
* ```css``` - The styling information for the HTML pages.
* ```images``` - Pictures included in the HTML files.
* ```js``` - JavaScript code for the HTML pages:
   * ```custom.js``` - Used for the interactive edition.
   * ```search.js``` - Used for the search functionality.
* ```xsl``` - Transformations for creation of the HTML pages and for populating the search:
   * ```transformation-to-html-for-homepage-edition-interactive.xsl``` - To create the interactive edition use this transformation. To be applied on ```50-weiss.xml```. Result to be written into ```edition-interactive.html```. Creates furthermore JSON files which are used by the interactive edition (```glosses.json``` (*glosses*), ```annotation-signs.json``` (*annotation signs*), ```text-variations.json``` (*text variations*), ```reference-signs.json``` (*reference signs*), ```notes.json``` (*notes*)). Expected in the ```json``` directory. For explanations about the different types of interventions consult the file: [technical documentation](https://priscian-glosses.acdh-dev.oeaw.ac.at/technical-documentation.html)
   * ```transformation-to-html-for-homepage-edition-simplified.xsl``` - To create the simplified edition use this transformation. To be applied on ```50-weiss.xml```. Result to be written into ```edition-simplified.html```.
   * ```transformation-to-html-for-homepage-edition.xsl``` - To create the *normal* edition. To be applied on ```50-weiss.xml```. Result to be written into ```edition.html```.
   * ```transformation-to-html-for-homepage-statistics.xsl``` - To create some statistics out of the edition. To be applied on ```50-weiss.xml```. Result to be written into ```statistics.html```.
   * ```transformation-to-jsonl-for-typesense.xsl``` - At the moment the application implements a client side search, so this transformation is not used.
# Search